so I'm standing in the doorway of a
polytunnel where I've been growing salad
all through this previous winter it's
now March the 24th and these plants have
been cropping for five months they were
sown in September planted in October we
started picking in November a brief lull
in January but otherwise every fortnight
every plant has been yielding wonderful
quantities of lovely salad leaves of all
different flavors and this morning it's
been frosty it was minus three overnight
so it's interesting to see how quite a
few of them are actually frozen at the
moment Polly tunnels don't keep frost
out but they do protect plants from wind
and rain and that's the main value it
enables plants to keep growing in
otherwise inclement weather and the
quality of the leaf quality stays really
high we have a wonderful range of leaves
here all different flavors from leaf
radish mustards of all shapes and colors
and hotness and lettuce spinach parsley
and chervil dill coriander all plants
that you can grow through the winter
that don't mind being frozen and they
keep cropping until towards the end of
April they'll start flowering and then I
pull them out ready for planting
tomatoes in May some of them actually
are starting to flower a bit now but
they'll go on cropping for a little
while yet and you can eat the flowers
here I'm surrounded by a wonderful array
of winter salad from September so in
modules planted in here in October and
it's been growing all winter and we've
been picking off the same plants for
five months and there's a whole range of
all different flavors the soil treatment
was very simple between tomatoes and
planting these salads for example all I
do is just tread down the sole gently
before dipping holes to plant them and I
haven't used any extra feed this had a
generous dressing the world watered
compost between January and April and
that was enough to mulch the pasture
this is all undisturbed pasture here
that these plants are growing in and
it's just had that compost on top was
enough to kill the pasture grass and
weeds and very few weeds have grown
since then in fact and any ways that do
grow we pick them as we're picking the
leaves and the way we pick the leaves is
to just take off the outer leaves of
plants if I show you for example with
this lettuce here this has already been
picked many times this lettuce I kind of
go underneath and I'm pushing down on
its outer leaves so come away with a
nice selection you can see that I've got
the stem as well this is a multi stem
variety and then I put these leaves
after washing in my salad bag and then
on my other side I have granola red
lettuce which is one of my favorite
winter lettuces because it's so winter
hardy and slug resistant actually this
side we picked only three days ago and
then 11 days ago the ones on the other
side we've picked and the way we do it
is very simply just again taking off the
outer leaves so there are many here but
having said that in fact there are
pretty much three good pickable leaves
on this plant and this plant is
interesting too for what's growing
underneath it which is mushrooms do you
see there's some lovely mushrooms there
and this is a bonus of noda growing
because healthy undyed soil has fungi in
and most of the fungi are not edible but
this is actually filled mushroom here
you can see if I cut one out look at
that it's I'm happy to eat that and I
know they say because I've eaten quite a
few of these already of this particular
kind so this is just illustrating the
point that a really healthy and axon is
full of funky funky help plants to root
particularly mycorrhizal fungi that's
different once again and they act as
root extensions to plants and help them
to forage for food and moisture
for further information do visit my
website which is www.hyken.com
you